Dear Editor,

Please find attached the response to the referees' and Associate
Editor's comments for the submission "Extreme deconvolution: Inferring
complete distribution functions from noisy, heterogeneous, and
incomplete observations" by myself and others (submission #
AOAS0910-008).

We have revised the paper according to the referee's, Associate
Editor's, and your suggestions. We have reversed the emphasis of the
paper. We have overhauled the introduction to provide a more detailed
scientific motivation for the proposed method (this includes moving
much of the motivating material that was previously buried in the
"Applications" section to the introduction) and to place it in the
context of similar work. 

We have deleted most of the technical development of the algorithm,
focusing now only on where it differs from the regular EM algorithm
for mixtures of Gaussians. We also relegated the proof that the
algorithm increases the likelihood at every step to a (short)
appendix. We deleted the description of the regular EM algorithm for
mixtures of Gaussians that used to form a long appendix.

We have kept the section on "Extensions", but we have also shortened
it significantly. We have also moved the details of the
split-and-merge extension to an appendix.

We removed the application of fitting a straight line using our
algorithm. We also expanded the discussion of our main (and now only)
application, explaining carefully why this problem has all of the
properties that make the model proposed in the paper apply and adding
a discussion of the model-selection implementation that we used to
arrive at the preferred number of 10 Gaussians for this dataset.

The paper is now only 23 pages long (everything included). 

Detailed responses to all of the referee's and Associate Editor's
comments are included in this re-submission.

After the initial submission of this paper, we suffered the loss of
our third author, Sam Roweis, who died in January. Would it be
necessary and appropriate to make a note of this in the paper and how
would this best be done?

Please contact me by the information given below with any questions
regarding this re-submission.

With kind regards,

Jo Bovy

-
Jo Bovy
Ctr. for Cosmology & Particle Physics, 
Dept. of Physics
New York University
4 Washington Place
New York, NY 10003
jb2777@nyu.edu


